# 02: OBJECT-ORIENTED MODELLING

- CRC card vs class diagram

CRC card focuses on problem
while the class diagram focues on implementation


## Abstraction

**The essential characteristics of an abstraction can be understood in
two ways through:**

- basic attributes and 
- through basic behaviours
or responsibilities. 

An abstraction, as explained above, should only convey a concept’s
essential attributes and behaviours. 


## Encapsulation

**An object’s data should only contain what is relevant for that object.**

>1. data: properties
>2. behavour:functions

- Integrity and Security

As one of the ideas of encapsulation is restricting access to certain
data and functions to only within an object, this naturally links
encapsulation to data integrity and the security of sensitive
information. 

- Changeable Implementation

- Black Box


## Decomposition

It consists of taking a whole thing, and dividing it into different parts. 

Based on the lifetime relationship of the parts and the whole, there are three types of relationships:

- Association
>1. Loose relationship between two objects, which may interact with each other for some time.

```java
public class Student {
  public vod play(Sport sport) {
    execute.play(sport);
  }
}
```

- Aggregation

>1. Aggragation is a **has-a** relationship where a whole has parts that belong to it.

```java
public class Airliner {
  private ArrayList<CrewMember> crew;

  publc Airliner() {
    crew = new ArrayList<CrewMember>();
  }

  public void add(CrewMember crew) {
    //...
  }

}
```


- composition

>1. This relationship is an exclusive containment of parts, otherwise known as a strong
**hash-a** relationship.
>2. A whole can't exist without its parts, and if the whole is destoryed, then the pars are destoryed too.

```java
public class House {
  private Room room;

  public House() {
    room = new Room();
  }
}
```


## Generalization

In object-oriented modelling, generalization is a main design
principle, but beyond creating a method that can be applied to
different data, object-oriented modelling achieves generalization by
classes through inheritance.

This allows you to have two kinds of classes: **a parent class, and a
child class.** Child classes inherit attributes and behaviours of parent
classes. **This means that repeated, common, or shared
characteristics go into parent classes.** Parent classes capture
general ideas and generally have broader application.

Both methods and inheritance exemplify the generalization design
principle through the D.R.Y. or “Don’t Repeat Yourself” rule. 


Some keywords used in generalization

- extends
- super
- class

**Class is a type of data.**

### Interfaces

A Java interface also denotes a type, but **an interface only declares
method signatures**, with no constructors, attributes, or method
bodies. **It specifies the expected behaviours in the method
signatures, but it does not provide any implementation details.**

**Sometimes, an I is placed before the actual interce name**.

```java
public interface IAnimal {
  public void move();
  public void speak();
  public void eat();
}
```

**A Java interface can describe the expected common behaviour of
multiple classes**, without directly implementing that behavior. 

In order to use an interface, you must declare that you are going to fullfill the contract as described in the interface.

```java
public class Lion implements IAnimal {
  public void move() {System.out.println("Lion is moving")}
  public void speak() {System.out.println("Lion is speaking")}
  public void eat() {System.out.println("Lion is eating")}
}
```

An interface can be implemented by multiple classes; also, a class can implement multiple interfaces.


**Abstract classes ** and **interfaces** are two means of achiving polymorphsim.
**Polymorphism** is  when two classes have the sam description of a behavour, but the 
implementations of that behavour may vary.

### Classes vs Interfaces

Inheriting multiple classes brings **data ambiguity** because of two superclasses may have the same method signature. Yet, inheriting multiple interfaces dosen't have this issue. This is because interfaces are only contracts and they dont enforce a specific way to complete these contracts, so overlapping these methods bring no ambiguity.


