# MODULE 3: DESIGN PRINCIPLES

## General guidelines of evaluation software solutions

### Evaluate dsign complexity with **coupling** and **cohesion**

>1. If your design complexity exceeds what developers can mentally handle, then bugs occur more ofen.
>2. Design complexity applies to both classes and methods within them.

- **Coupling** focues on complexity between a module and other modules.
>1. Tight vs loose coupling

The metrics to evaluate coupling of a moudle are
  >1. **Degree**: is the number of connections beween the module and others. The degree should be small for coupling. For example, a module should connect to others through only a few parameters or narraw interfaces.
  >2. **Ease**: is how obvious are the connections between the module and others. Connection should be easy to make withougt needing to understand the implmentation of other modules, for coupling purpose.
  >3. **Flexibility**

- **Cohesiion**

**Single clear purpose**

Focuses on complexity within a module, and represents the clarity of the resposibilities of a module.

A module that performs on task and nothing else, or that has clear purpose, has high colhesion.

If a module has more than one responsibility, it is a good idea to split the module.

### the speration of concerns

A **concern** is a very general notion: it is anything that matters in providing a solution to a problem.

Speration of concerns is about keeping the different concerns in your deisng seperate.
When software is designed, different concerns should be addressed in different portiions of the software.

Example:

Smart Phone example: https://www.coursera.org/learn/object-oriented-design/lecture/nBqPZ/1-3-2-separation-of-concerns

With seperation of concerns, we only enculpsulate related attributes and methods to a class.

### Information hidding

### Conceptual integrity

One mind guides the work even though multiple teams/developers there.

>1. Communication
>2. All follow the same Naming Convention
>3. Code reviews
>4. Good architecture
>5. Unifying concepts
>6. Have a small core devs to accept commits

### Inheritance Issues

- How do we know if we are abusing inheritance?

>1. Am I using inheritance to simply share attributes or behavior without further adding anything special in my subclasses?

- Liskov Substituion principles

**The Liskov Substitution Principle in practical software development. The principle defines that objects of a superclass shall be replaceable with objects of its subclasses without breaking the application. That requires the objects of your subclasses to behave in the same way as the objects of your superclass.**

#### Bad examples:

- 1. Java example

```java
public class Animal {
  void eat() {}
  void run() {}
}
```

```java
public class whale {
  void swim() {}
  void run() {
    this.swim();
  }
}
```

-2. Stack  in Java.

In Java, you can retrive a element with index, which should be the feature of a list.

**If inheritance doesn't suit your needs, consider where decomposition is more approporiate**

## UML sequence diagrams

- video: https://www.coursera.org/learn/object-oriented-design/lecture/965yb/1-3-6-uml-sequence-diagram

- Lecture: p.74

**A sequence diagram describes how objects in system interact with each other to complete tasks.**