# Object-Oriented-Modeling(Week2)

Today, all developers should be familiar with *abstraction*, *encapsulation*, *decomposition*, and *generalization*, which are fundatamental principles in object-oriented design.

Use UML.

## Bridging concepts and solutions


- quality metrics
>1. Re useable
>2. flexiable
>3. Maintainable


- Topics of this week
>1. talking about modeling probelms
>2. How programming languages eveols toward object orientation
>3. Explore four major design principles used in OOM.
>4. How to use the mentioned four principles in UML class diagrams and Java code.

The process is 
>1. you need a **conceptual design** to break down the problem further into manageble peices.
>2. You also need **technical design** to desrbile and refine the solution.


- How to abstract the object and behaviors
>1. Any noun can be an important objectThe


## Language Evolution

COBOL and Fortan followed an imperative paradign which broke up large programs into smaller programs called subroutine, which are  like methods in Java.

*subroutine*: 子程序或者函数。

>1. Global data -> Local data
>2. C Module2  so that programm can be maintained in a module
>3. Extention(1980s) Object-Oriented-Design

### Abstract Data Type:

An abstract data type is a data type that is deined by the programmer and not built into the language. An abstract data type is ensentially a grouping of related information that is denoted with a type. It was a way to organize tdat in a meaningful way.


### The goal of objecte-oriented design is to
>1. Make an abstract data type easier to write
>2. Structure a system  around abstract data types called classes
>3. Introduce the ability for an abstract data type to extend another

The advantage of this is that the system will mimic the structure of the problem.

**As the process is more powerful than before, the most expensive resouces to create a software is you(human cost)**


## Four design principles
>1. Abstraction
>2. Encapsulation
>3. Decomposition
>4. Generalization


### Abstraction

Two parts an abstraction should describe
>1. attributes
>2. behavior

**Abstraction** is the idea of simplifying a concept in the problem domain to its ensentiails with some **context**. Abstraction allows you to better understand a concept by breaking it down into a simplified description that ignores unimportant details.

**Rule of Least Astonishment**

The abstraction captures the **esential attributes and behavior** for a concept with no surpcise and modification that fall beyond its scope. You dont want to surprice anyone trying to understand your abstraction with irrelevant characteristics.


When we making an abstraction, we should fall into a context.


### Encapsulatin

>1. Bundle
>2. Functions
>3. Expose
>4. Restrict

**Encapuslation** forms a self-contained object by bundling the data and functions it requires to work, exposes an interface whereby other objects can access and use it, and restricts access to certain inside details.

The input and output is the same. It keeps your code module and easier to manage.

In **UML*, the private properties are indicated with *-*, while the public properties are indicated with *+*.

There are two deiffeent kinds of methods typically used to preserve data integrity. These are:
>1. Getter methods
>2. Setter methods


## Decomposition

Decomposition is taking a whole thing and dividing it up into different parts. Or, on the flip side, taking a bunch of seperate parts with different functionalities and combining them togther to form a whole.  Decompostition allows you to further break down problems into pieces taht are easier to understand and solve.

**A general rule for decompositio is to look at the different responsibilities of some whole thing, and evaluate how you can seperate them into
different parts, each with its own specific responsibilities.


>1. Data and functions that manuplate that data are bundled into a self-contained object;
>2. Data and functions of the object can be exposed or made accesible from other objects;
>3. Data and function of the object can be restricted to only within the object';



There are three types of relationships in decomposition:

>1. Association
>2. Aggregation
>3. Composition


We identify the relations among componenets by identify the lifetime/sharing of the components.

### Association

Indicates a loose relationshipt between two objects(Based on lifetime to test the relationship).

```java
public class Student {
  public void play(Sport: sport) {
    execute.play(sport)
  }
}
```

### Aggregation

Aggregation is a **has-a** relationship where a whole has parts that belong to it.


```java
public class Airline {
  private ArrayList<CrewMember> crew;

  public Airline () {
    crew = new ArrayList<CrewMember>();
  }
  public void add (CrewMember crewMenber) {
    //***
  }
}
```


### Generalization

Helps us reduce the redudancy when we solving problem.

Inheritance is used to describe the relationship between classes.

Generalization can be achieved by interitances in classes.

>1. superclass(broden term)
>2. subclass

- Advantages:

>1. Code can be resused through inheritance, which means we **DON'T**
need to reimplment behaviors that already exist.

>2. Subclases that inherit from the same superlcass include the attributes and behaviors(methods) from the superclass.


**DRY** rule.

**commonality** 共性。
