# Design Principles

This section you will see general guideline when evaluating the structure of  of you software solution so that it's flexiable, reusable, and maintainable. We will also talk about

>1. UML State
>2. UML Sequence


### Coupling and Cohesion


Our goal: High cohesion, low coupling.

#### Coupling 

According to a research, an average person can only recall 7 things in a short memory. When you are programming, keeping modules simple is critical. Once you design complecity exceeds what developers can mentally handle, bugs will recur more ofen.

We will use the term *module*. The metrics you will use to evaluate design complexity are coupling and cohesion.

>1. Coupling focuses on complexitiy between a module and other modules
>2. Cohesion focuses on complexity within a module.


Bad design exmaple:  Puzzle piece. You can only connect a puzzle piece to another specific puzzle piece and nothing else.
Good design example: LeGo. That way you can easily connect and reuse modules togther.

>1. Coupling captures the complexity of connecting module to other module
>2. We want our module to be loose not tight

- three metrics to evaluate a module
  - **Degree** is the number of connections between the module and others. With coupling, you want to keep the degree small. For instance, if the module needed to connect to other modules  through a few parameters or narrow interfces, the degree would be small., and coupling would be loose.

  - **Ease** is how obvious are the connections between the module and others. With coupling, you want the connections to be easy to make without neeeding to understand the implmentations of other modules.

  - **Flexibility** is how interchangeable the other modules are for this module. With coupling, you want the other modules easily replaceable for something better in the future.


#### Cohesion

Cohesion represents the clarity of the reposibility of a module. If you module performs one task and nothing elses or has clear purpos, you module performs **High Cohesion**; on the other hand, if you module tries to encapsulate more than one purpose or has unclear purpose, you module is **Low Cohesion**. If you found your module having more than one responsibility, it is probably time to split your module.


### Module assignments

>In past projects, I have used both coupling and cohesion. Usually, I've achieved low coupling through the use of interfaces and data coupling. High cohesion was achieved by reducing the scope of the responsibilities for each module.

>I've applied that not only at class level, module, but more recently at the service / executable unit level by designing microservices with clear responsibilities communicating through APIs and later through events.

> As most of these executables are running in cloud infrastructure - there is one more level to observe coupling and cohesion, in the supporting platform.

[Coupling and cohesion in past projects](https://www.coursera.org/learn/object-oriented-design/discussions/forums/02bnf2qyEemdNgpPKQDjTg/threads/CRTKsbTYQWWUyrG02DFl6Q)