# Java and UML


We use UML to describe the design. 

> 1. CRC -> conceptutal
> 2. UML -> tech design(Class diagram)

Class Diagram.

>1. class name
>2. properties
>3. methods

A comparasion of CRC card and class diagram

- 1. CRC card

>1. Class Food
>2. know grocery ID
>3. Know name
>4. Know manufacturer
>5. Know expiry date
>6. Known price
>7. Check if on sale

- 2. Class diagram

>1. Class Name: Food
>2. grocertID: String
>3. name: String
>4. manufacurer: String
>5. expiryDate: Date
>6. price: double


## Encapsulation in Java and UML

### Encapsulation

>1. Bundle data and functions that manipludate the data to forma a selfcontained object.
>2. Expose certain data and function that object which can be accessed from other objects
>3. Restrict access to certain data and fuctions to only within that object

- Getter methods
>1. get pecies of data
>2. get[PropertyName]

- Setter methods
>1. Can change data, and their name typically begin with set and end with the same name of varible you wish to set
>2. Setter are used to set private attribute ina safe way.


We use getter and setter to protect data integrity.


## Decomposition in Java and UML

- Association

**If one object is destroyed, the other can continue to exist.**

```ts
class Student {
  constructor(private name) {}

  play(sport: Sport) {
    this.execute(sport);
  }
}
```
- Aggregation

is a *has-a* relationship.

Though a parts can belong to a whole, they can also exists withouth a whole.


```java
public class Airline {
  private ArrayList<CrewMember> crew;

  public Airline() {
    crew = new ArrayList<CrewMemeber>();
  }

  public void addCrew(CrewMember crewMember) {
    crew.push(crewMember)
  }
}
```


```ts
class Pet {
  constructor(private name:string, private breed:string) {}
}

class Store {
  private pets: Pet[] = [];

  addPet(pet: Pet):void {
    this.pets.push(pet);
  }
}
```

- Composition

is an exclusive containment of parts, otherwise known as a strong has-a relation.
What this mean is that the whole can't exist without its parts. If it loses any of its parts the whole ceases to exist. If the the whole is destroyed then all of its parts are destroyed too. Usually you can only access the parts through its whole. Contained parts are exclusive to the whole.

```java
public class Human {
  private Brain brain;

  public Human() {
    brain = new Brain();
  }
}
```

## Generalization


- Midfiers
>1. **-**
>2. **#**  
- Can be accessed by a subclass. 
- the encapulating class itself,
- all classes within the same package.
>3. **+**

**All properties and methods of a superclass are inherited but that doesn't mean it can be accessed by a subclass.**.

```java
public abstract class Animal {
  protected int numberOfLegs;
  protected int numberOfTails;
  protected String name;

  public Animal(String name, int legs, int tails) {
    thhis.name = name;
    this.lnumberOfLegs = legs;
    this.numberOfTails = tails;
  }

  public void walk();
  public void run();
  public void eat();
}
```

All properties are asigned with null or zero when using the default constructor .

Only one single inheritance is allowed in Java.

### Generalization with interfaces in Java and UML

- notion: 概念
- denotes：意味着

A Java interface also denotes a type. Unlike class, **an interface only declares method signatures, and no constructors, attributes, or method bodies**. It specifies the expected behaviors in the method signatuers, but it doesn't provide any implmentation details.

So, an interface is like a contract to be fullfilled by implmenting classes.

They are used to describe behaviors.

The standard in Java programming is to place an **I* before the actual interface name.

```Java
public interface IAnimal {
  public void move();
  public void speak();
  public void eat();
}

public class Dog implements IAnimal {
  //**
}
```

The advantages of using interface
>1. Different classes will have the same exact implementation of behaviors
>2. Interfaces can be implemented by multiple classes
>3. Classes can decide how to perform the behaivors desribed in an interface
>4. A class can implmented multiple interfaces


**polymorphism**

Two classes have the same description of behavior, but  the implementation of the behavior may be different.

Just like class inheritance, the interface inheritance should be abused.

Interfaces enable you to describe behaviors without the need to implmement them, which allows you to reuse these abstractions.

Interfaces are meant to fullfill a specific need, which is to provide a way for related classes to work consitently. You should not generalize all behaviors contract into  interfaces.


[You can also delcare a function in an interface in typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/interfaces.html#:~:text=To%20describe%20a%20function%20type,requires%20both%20name%20and%20type.).
