# Object Oriented Design

## Module 1: Object Oriented Analysis and Design


By using objects to represent things in your code, the code stays **Origanized**, **flexiable**, and **resuable**.

>1. **Keep code organized** Putting related details and specific functions in distinct, easy to find places
>2. **Keep code flexiable** details can be changed in a module way
>3. **All code to be reused**

**Objects are self aware**.

### Design in the software process

A process is generally iterative. These iterations consits of taking a set of requirements based on the identified problem(s) and using them to create
>1. **conceptual design** mock-ups, and the
>2. **technical design** diagrams, which can then be used to create working softwware
>3. **implementation**

#### Requirements and trade-off

- Requirements and trade-off

>1. Talk with client about project vision, also including what the client have not mentioned.

>2. estabilish potential trade-off

Once **requirements** and **trade-off** established, they may serve as the fundation for design.

#### Design process

This process involves two parts
>1. Concetpual design(outline the more high level concepts)
>2. Technical design

This results in the creation of two different kinds of artifacts:
>1. Concetptual mock-ups
>2. Technical diagrams

**Conceptual Design **regnoizes appropriate 
>1. Components
>2. Connections
>3. Responsibilities(the task(s) a component has to perform)

of the software product.

The clearer the conceptual design is, the better the technical design is.

-----------------------


**Technical Desgin**

Techinical design buid on conceptual designs and requirements to define the  technical details of the solution.

Technical design brings how these responsibilites are met.


**Balance Trade-offs**

### Design For Quality Attributes

Quality ande deadlin both can influence software architecture.

- Trade offs
- Context

Context provides important information when deciding on the balance of qualitiies in design.
In order to estabilish context, it is important to talk to stakeholders.

- Consequence

> Talk with other stakeholders, including developers, project owner, and considering the testing.
>2. Clients and End Users

#### Satisfying quality

>1. Functional quatility
>2. none functioncal quality requirements


### CRC Cards In technical design

One technich to represent components, connections and responsibilities is to use
**Class**, **Responsibilities** and  Collaborator (CRC) cards.

In system design, CRC cards has a purpose it forces designers to keep breaking compoents down into smaller components and classes that can be individually described on a card.

CRC cards  should organized by placing closelt collaborating comonents together, which makes it easier to understand the relationships or connections between classes or components.




----------


### Supplements

- Expressing requirements with user-stories: https://www.coursera.org/learn/object-oriented-design/supplement/s2fvX/expressing-requirements-with-user-stories


**As a ______, I want to ______ so that ______.**

Usually, 

  > nouns correspond object in your system
  > verb help you identify the requirements that your objects might have
  > verbs may also help you identify connections between objects

- Categories of Objects in Design

  - 1. Entity Objects. 
    > 1. Generally, entity objects will know attributes about themselfves. 
    > 2. They will also be able to modify themselves
    > 3. And have some rules for how to do so

  - 2. Boundary Objects

  are objects which sit at the boundary between systems. Any object that deal with another system-a user, anohter software system, the internet - can be considered a boundary object.

  - 3 Control Objects

  are objects which are responsibile for coordination.  You will discorver control objects when you attempt to break down a large object, and find that it would be helpful to have an object that can control other objects.

Entity objects are important, but no less ensential, there must also be objects for coordination and interfacing with outside systems.
