# Microservice


## Brief introduction

Currently there is no universal defination for microservice. For this course, **microservice are independently deployable modules.**

A better solution to decoupling microservices is to provide an independent virtual marchine or Docker container for each microservice.

-----

## Advantages

### For scaling of development
1.  When deviding the unit small enought, each individual service can make most  decisions on their own
2. each docker container only has to offer an interface for the other containers
3. The intertal structure of the containers doesn't matter
4. a new featture only requires change in one microservice. It can not only be delvelped and deployed independently.


-----

###  Replcacing legacy system

No pre-existing codebase has to be used.

### Sustainable development

- Replaciable of microservices
  - However, it is diffuclt to replace a micorservices, on which numberous other microservices depend since changes might affect the other microservices. **Thus, 
  the dependencies between microservices have to be managed appropritately.**
  - **As microservices have clear boundaries due to their interface** irrespective of whether the inferface is implementedd as a REST interface or via messaging.
  - The interface between microservices are in a way architecture firewalls since they precent architecture violation.

## Continiuous Delivery

- Units are smaller
- However, note that microservice architecture can only work when the deployment is automated.
- setting up an enviroment to integration test a microservices architecture can be complicated.

## More advantages

- Robusness
  - Resilience: Other microservices that depend on another microservice have to compenstate for the failure of the crashed microservice. This is called **resilience**.
**Without resilience, the availablitty of a microservice system might be a pronlem**.

- Independent scaling

  - Each microservice can be independently scaled.
  - **The microservices naturallyhave to fulfill certain requirements**.
    >1. For example, they must be **stateless**
- security

  Microservice can be isoltated from each other.

## Tradeoffs, prioritizing advantages, & levels

