# Micro and Macro Architecture

Analyze the microservices architecture from micro and macro.

>1. Must ensure that the microservices can work together to form the overall system
>2. The freedom of the microservices should not be too restricted since this would compromise their isolation.

It is advisable to divide the architecture into micro and macro architecture for those above two reasons.

This chapter contains three topics:
- The division of domain logic into microservices.
>1. Domain-Driven Design and
>2. the bounded context are excellent approaches for such a decision
- The decisions that are part of the technical micro and macro architecture and how a DevOps model affects the decision
- The question of who decides the decision into micro and macro, and creates the macro architecture.

## Domain-Driven Design and Bounded Contexts

An e-commerce system can be divided into modules and sub-modules as follows:

-  Customer registration
- Order process
>1.  Data validation
>2. Freight charge calculation
- Payment
- Shipping

### concepts

- Domain-driven design:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-driven_design

- Strategic Design
  >1. The **bounded context** is the context in which a specific domain model is valid
  >2. The upstream team can influence the downstream team. However, the downstream team can't influence the upstream team.

DDD describes serveral patterns how exactly communication takes place, these patterns not only describe the architecture, but also **the cooperation within the organization.**

- The customer/supplier pattern

----

## Architecture Decision

### Micro and macro architecture decision

- language, frameworks and infrastructure
- Database
  >1. they store the data
  >2. The loss of data is usually unacceptable(backup strategy, disaster recovery strategy)
  - **Micro**: Each microservices can also have its own instance of the database. if database were defiend at the micro architecture
    >1. A crash of one database will cause only one microservice to fail which makes the entire app more robust
    >2. However, the higher effort involved.
  - **Macro**: To avoid needing many different databases, the database can be defined as part of the **macro architecture** for all microservices.
    >1. Even if the database is defined in the macro architecture,**mutiple microservices must not share a database schema**. This would contradict the bounded contexts.
    >2. The domain model in the database schema would be used by serveral microservices. This would couple the microservices too strongly.
  

